generic.htm

## 21/2/2025 - A Necassary Update

I haven't been active at all - for nearly 2 months now. Although my last 2 posts have been partially or mostly status updates, I feel like it's very necassary to give another one, if not for my own peace of mind more than anything else.

### Yaoi/Yuri Webring

Before I address anything else - the webring. As I'm writing this right now, (although by the time this post is released, this shouldn't be an issue) there are 6 people waiting to be added to my webring. Some for nearly 20 days now - and I haven't done anything because I'm lazy. For this reason, and knowing that I can't force myself to be responsible in this aspect, I'm no longer accepting new members.

I don't want to shut down the webring though; if anybody is interested, I am gladly willing to hand over ownership to someone else. You can e-mail me at [entyspite@gmail.com](mailto:entyspite@gmail.com) to work out the details.

### My Plans

I've had multiple posts at this point giving lists of updates this website needs, but I've done, quite literally, nothing. Honestly, I hate reading and am too lazy to reread to check everything I said I would do (My hate for reading is also the reason why all of this reads like shit, probably). Really quick though, I remember promising to post a Spotify playlist of songs I like - first of all, I'm considering moving away from Spotify in favour of almost any other alternative at this point, and second, although I'm too lazy to fix the playlist right now, I did make a list of my top 10 favourite songs a while ago:

1. Running Up That Hill - Kate Bush
2. EARFQUAKE - Tyler, The Creator
3. Pain - PinkPantheress
4. Владивосток 2000 - Мумий Тролль
5. Hazy Skyscraper - DEMONDICE
6. Каждий раз - Монеточка
7. Любовь моя - Элли на маковом поле
8. Все идет по плану - Егор Летов
9. As the World Caves In - Matt Maltese
10. Moonlight - Kali Uchis

Recently I've also really liked BOYFRIEND, GIRLFRIEND and NEW MAGIC WAND by Tyler, The Creator, along with Пачка Сигарет by Kino.

Back to the topic at hand - A big reason I have been completely inactive for so long at this point is, simply, lack of motivation. Since I added a "Today's song" section, that required me to add a new song daily (which, to be fair, I haven't been doing) and that process is a bit of a pain. Although this is a very small issue, that in turn led to me being unable to effectively revamp the website in a more complete way. Since there's a need of daily updates, I need to maintain the old build system *while* I'm working on the new one. Although this is what Git branches are for, having to focus on maintaining an old system while creating a new one is still too much for me to not lose interest.

As I said, if I continue working on this website, I'll likely redo everything again, from the start. That might happen soon, or it might happen never.

### Random Thoughts

I can't remember anything else important needed to be said, but there are some things I might focus on fixing before any sort of long-term reworks. For example, the "Other sites" buttons on the side are all hotlinked - and right now, two of them aren't working. Also, some gradients break on the mobile layout.

On a completely unrelated note, it's kind of crazy that the unique visitor counter I put at the bottom of the page is almost at 1000 - currently sitting at 997. Nearly 1000 different people have gone to this page, and maybe, some of them even read something - and I think this is the whole point. Knowing that there are other people, who I may somehow impact and who will see my work makes this all worth it.

### Conclusion

Anyone who joined the webring, thank you for dealing with how incredibly slow I am - and I am so sorry! Thank you all for reading!